So I will add a new horizontal line because we're now leaving the css world though of course we could
mix it,
I'm just emphasizing this because that is perfectly fine,
maybe you want to play the animation through css and only listen to the end of it in the afterEnter
hook
we just saw and execute some javascript code once the animation finishes.
That's perfectly fine and not that uncommon but here, I want to use all these hooks to really play the
whole animation.
So I get my horizontal line here and I will add a new button with button classes, button and button primary
to give it some nice styling,
and here I will load or remove an element, just so that I don't trigger everything with this show thing
up there.
Now here, I want to add a click listener and toggle a new property called load, like before show and I
will simply add this new load property.
I will set show to false initially so that we don't see all the divs from before but that we can now
focus on this one here, load which is the new one we will use for all the javascript related things
here. Then I'll add two line breaks to just have some space here
and then of course the transition component again which I just explained does have these specific events
it emits.
Now in there, I still want to have a div but now let's set it up a bit differently, let's give it our
own style here, let's say with a width of 100 pixels and a height of 100 pixels and a background color
of light green.
And if we save this and go to the application, we should see this and right now this doesn't work
because now I will also need to attach v-if to it and point this to load to conditionally
well attach or detach it after reloading here,
now this works but now we want to animate it
through javascript.
So we get our div here which we can attach and detach,
nothing spectacular here, we did that before but nowI want to use javascript to do that. Now for that, let's
see which hooks get executed,
we saw it on the slide,
we got a couple of events we can listen to. The first one is with @, as we do listen to all the events
before-enter, now this is a custom event emitted by this transition component vuejs ships with. In the
quotation marks, we specify which function or method we want to execute
and I will execute a beforeEnter method which of course I will have yet to create,
then we get the enter method or the enter event being emitted here,
then we also got the after-enter event which is executed once the animation finishes,
after-enter and we get enter-canceled.
Now I know I already said this but you can use all these hooks on the css animations up here,
for example if you add it to let's say the first one here at the enter, the after-enter event listener, you
could execute some code whenever the css animation finishes,
so that is perfectly valid and something you will probably also use from time to time because you want
to execute some javascript code upon finishing some animation. Back to this here
though, now we get these enter hooks and we get the same for leaving,
so we get before-leave here and I want to execute before-leave, this method which I of course also
have to add, then we get just the leave event being executed or emitted
I should say, then we get after-leave, where I want to execute after-leave
and finally, we get leave-canceled where I want to execute leave-cancelled, like this.
So these are now all the event listeners being set up listening to all the events
this transition component does emit from time to time during the animations
and now let's add them.
So in my vue instance, I'll add my methods here and here I got beforeEnter and in beforeEnter, we
actually do receive a certain argument,
the argument we get here is the element on which this animation is performed,
so we can use this element here.
I simply want to log beforeEnter here,
so that we can see that we reach this hook and then we get the enter method.
Now the enter method which is where the animation really plays
also gets the element, we need this element of course to be able to really change it, to work with it
but this also gets another method, the done or argument I should say, the done argument here which
actually is a function we can execute like this.
Now why would we execute it?
Well first I will log enter here but now why would we execute done here? Done is needed to tell vuejs
.
once this animation finishes. When using css animations, well it can determine this from the timing
we set up here on the transition or the animation property
but when using javascript, we have no such timing.
You could say well it should be finished whenever all the code in enter is executed but maybe you have
some asynchronous code there, then this wouldn't work anymore because then it would be executed before
the asynchronous code finished.
So you need to call done to really tell vuejs when you are done,
you don't need to call done if you do use css animations,
so if we were to use the add enter listener here and execute enter here where we do have some
css animations being used, well then vuejs is still able to determine when this animation ends
from your css code but if you don't have any css code set up as we do here,
well then it's not able to do so, therefore you need to tell it with the done function being executed.
Well once we are done, we got the afteEnter method we execute up there and afterEnter also receives
the element,
all these hooks do that,
so here I will then console log afterEnter to see that we reach that and then we get enterCancelled of course,
here we also get the element on which we cancel this animation and I will also execute enterCancelled
here.
Now these are all the as the element hooks,
now let's add the other ones, so we get beforeLeave, of course also with the element
and here I want to console log beforeLeave like this, thereafter we also got the leave hook
and here again get the done function because as with adding it, we want to know what once
we're done leaving it or removing it I should say.
So here I will console log leave
and then of course we get also afterLeave being executed, here
I want to console log afterLeave therefore
and then I also get leaveCancelLed where we also get the element and then we log leave cancelled, like
this.
Now these are all the hooks which get executed
and we should already be able to see all of that by simply saving this, going to the application, opening
up our console here,
reloading this
and now let's remove it,
we see beforeLeave and leave and we don't see afterLeave, before I forget to call
done here in this leave hook, just was explaining it and then forgot it
but the great thing is you now see that it is important.
So let's try this again,
remove it, now you see beforeLeave, leave and afterLeave
and if I add it again,
well then we see beforeEnter, enter and afterEnter. You can't see the canceled hooks being called right now because
since all everything happens instantly, I can't cancel it.
We'll come to this in a second though.